Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn about categories before we ask ourselves the question what
is a category.
Let's begin by looking at our website and giving ourselves a goal.
So our goal for this lesson is to add to new links to the main navigation menu.
One link will be named travel and the other will be named recipes.
When we click on travel it should take us to a listing of only blog posts that are related to travel
and when we click on recipes it should take us to a listing of only blog posts that include recipes
in order to achieve this we are going to leverage something called categories.
Let's begin by jumping over to our admin dashboard and creating a few dummy filler example blog posts
so I will use this link in my top bar to jump to the admin area and then in my left hand side bar I
will look for posts and within this menu I will use add new.
All right now on my example website travel is going to be one of my categories so I might name one of
my blog posts.
Trip to the west coast.
But in your case when you're following along.
Feel free to make up whatever category you want.
Maybe instead of travel related blog posts you have blog posts related to automobiles or computers or
the Stock Exchange or the weather or I don't know anything right.
So feel free to use whatever content you want down here in this field.
I will just paste in a bit of law and some dummy content.
And now here is the important part.
Over in the right hand column if we scroll down a little bit.
Notice this box named categories as of this moment.
I don't have any categories so you can see that the only box I have here to check is something called
Uncategorized.
So what I can do is use this add new category link.
So if I click this add new category.
Now I have this empty text field and I'm just going to type travel.
Then scroll down a little bit and now I can click this add new category button perfect.
So I just created a new category named travel and you can see that this box is checked and that's my
way of telling WordPress that this new post that I'm creating trip to the west coast should be categorized
under the travel category.
All right this looks good.
Sonand going to use the published button in the top right corner to save that blog post perfect.
Here we see the success message Post published now just so we have a bit more content to experiment
with.
I'm going to create another new blog post under the travel category so I can use this add new button
here or in my sidebar I can use this add new button so I will create another new blog post named trip
to the east coast and then in this field I'll just paste in the dummy content again.
Scroll down a little bit and in the right hand column I'm looking for this category's box and I will
check travel and then I will save or publish this post while I'm at it.
I will create another new post so a third of travel related post to add new I will title this one trip
to the Midwest.
Paste in a bit of filler content.
Scroll down a bit.
Within this category's box choose travel.
Use this publish button to save this post.
All right so now I have my three example travel posts.
Next I'm going to create three example recipe posts.
So again I will use this add new button.
I will title this blog post.
Easy.
Spaghetti paste in a bit of filler content.
And here's the important part.
Down in the right hand column within this category's box I do not want to assign this easy spaghetti
post to the travel category.
Instead I want to create a new category.
I want to add a new one so click add new category within this box.
I will type recipes and then click the Add new category button perfect.
So with this recipe's check mark checked I can just scroll up and publish or save this post.
All right so that's one example recipe post.
Let's create another one so add new I will name this post.
Homemade french bread and then paste in a bit of dummy content.
Scroll down.
Look within this box.
Check the recipes category and go ahead and publish or save this post.
And finally let's create one additional recipe posts so add new I will title this one Greek salad paste
in my content scroll down be sure to check the recipes checkbox under categories and then publish.
All right so at this point I have all of my example posts ready to go and if I switch back to my public
facing Web site here's the home page and we can see all of the posts that we just created.
All right.
And remember our goal is to add new links in our main navigation area of travel and recipes and when
we click on one of those links we want to see a filtered listing of only that category of posts.
So to add our two links to this navigation menu I'm just going to jump back to the admin portion of
my web site using this top left link in the sidebar.
I'm going to look for appearance.
And then within this pop out menu I will look for the item named menus.
All right.
So here are the links that are currently in our main navigation menu.
And remember we've used this area several times in the course so far.
This is a listing of all available pages but you'll notice below that area we see a few other options
posts.
Custom links and categories.
So if we click on this category's area now we are presented with a list of all of our categories and
if I click on travel and then add to menu
that will add a link to the travel category in our main menu.
I also want to add a link to the recipe so I will check that.
You could have checked both of them at the same time and then just clicked add two menu.
All right there we see it.
Now I want the Contact Us page to be the last link in the menu.
So I'm just going to drag and drop it here.
All right.
The menu looks good to me so I will click the blue save menu button and now if I jump back to the public
facing front end of my website.
Here's the homepage but if I use the navigation menu to click on travel perfect.
So here we see a filtered listing of only travel related posts.
So a trip to the Midwest trip to the east coast trip to the west coast and if I scroll back up and click
on recipe's beautiful we see Greek salad homemade french bread and easy spaghetti.
Now this is a great set up because maybe a week from now will come back to our website and want to add
a new recipe and all we need to do is create a new post and assign it to the recipes category and it
will automatically show up at the very top of our recipes page.
Now at this point you might be thinking to yourself OK so I'm starting to get the grasp of things.
Now I know how to create a dedicated page for only recipe blog posts and I have a dedicated page for
travel related blog posts.
Your next thought might be that maybe you don't want your home page.
So if I clicked this logo to go back to my home page now maybe you don't want your home page to just
be a generic blog listing of all categories.
Right so instead maybe you want your home page to feature static content content that welcomes the visitors
to the Web site and maybe features some of your top content.
You get the idea.
Not everyone wants their home page to be a generic blog listing.
So in our next lesson we will learn how to create a custom home page.
You will learn how to make your home page contain whatever content you want it to have and perhaps you
want to move your generic or category's blog listing to a new page named blog and maybe include a link
to that in the main navigation menu.
Or maybe you just don't want a generic all category blog listing at all.
Maybe you only want these filtered category blog pages.
It's totally up to you right.
This is your Web site and you can structure it however you please.
All right so coming up next we will learn how to create a custom home page should be a ton of fun.
Let's keep rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.